This is crazy! I built this little ugly web app today to help visualize trading results based on purely RRR, risk per trade, estimated win rate of strategy, starting capital and number of trades taken. My algorithm randomly generates a win or loss based on the % rate and at the end of the simulation gives you the actual outcome. I've learned so much from the algorithm that I would like to share with you!

The more trades taken, the closer the actual win rate gets to the estimated strategy win rate. The law of large numbers!
The outcome of your trade account can differ WILDLY even if all factors are constant, why is this? LUCK. It really comes down to the sequence of your winners and losers. Even if your win rate is the same. One account balance may have grown by a ton, while another barely grew, purely because of the sequence of winners and losers. This ties into the next point:
Increasing risk is the easiest way to destroy your account. The simulator gave the best results in the 3-5% risk range. The growth on 1-2% was much slower. Above 5% the account will typically get blown!! that's crazy. This combined with the above element of luck shows us that risk management truly is one of the most important factors.
Strategy win rate: This was quite interesting.. A RRR of 1:3 with a strategy that has a 30% win rate perform exponentially, like millions of dollars (over 1000's of trades) worse than a 1:3 with 33% win rate. That was crazy to me. Just a 3% increase in the win rate of the strategy made the outcomes exponentially better. This teaches me that RRR and Win % are very very sensitive variables in the trading plan and maybe we shouldn't be messing with our strategy so much as to keep cutting ourselves short on RRR or our Win %.

Anyway I thought this was very interesting, I put the app online if you guys want to play with it. It's really ugly as I just coded it in a few minutes. Will style it and add more things like Expectancy, largest winner, average RRR etc. But this is still cool for now. @Rockz Please let me know if this was okay to post here, otherwise I'll move it to an appropriate channel, just thought it's a cool tool for the folks!

https://forex-sim.web.app/
